With the item processor implemented, the next step is to unit test it.
I'm showing a portion of the code for a new unit test case to be
created in the BatchJobConfigurationTest class.
As this item processor is just a Java function, testing is relatively simple.
I'm just constructing an instance of PatientRecord with sample data,
then I pass that data into the apply method of the processor function.
This returns a PatientEntity.
Finally, I perform assertions to validate that the entity was correctly built.
Note that while this test is against the Java function,
I annotated the Bean with StepScope.
Because of this,
I'm also going to be required to add test listeners
to create a StepScope for my test.
Let's create that test now.
In this demo, I'll be adding a test case for the item processor,
as well as modifying the test class to add listeners for a StepScope.
Please note that I'll be following Demo 17 found in the DEMOS.
md file in the root project directory.
With the item processor implementation in place,
I want to now unit test the code.
Let's create the unit test.
Open the class BatchJobConfigurationTest.
I'm going to start by adding an attribute for the
item processor into the test class.
This will autowire the processor Bean that it created into the test class.
Next let's scroll to the bottom,
and we're going to add the item processor test case.
The item processor test simply calls the Java function apply method to
transform the test PatientRecord into a PatientEntity.
I'm going to scroll down so we can see the bottom of this.
While the implementation is simply a Java function,
I annotated the Bean with the StepScope annotation.
Given this, the test will fail as it wasn't executed within a step.
To overcome this, I'm going to add an annotation to the class.
Let me scroll up to the top now.
I'm going to drop in an annotation for TestExecutionListeners.
The test execution listeners I added will allow my test to succeed.
The DependencyInjectionTestExecutionListener and
StepScopeTestExecutionListener result in a StepScope
context being created for my unit test.
Now I'm going to try to execute the test.
Let's scroll back down, and I'll click to run it in the IDE.
And here we see that the test has passed.
If it fails for you,
make sure to double check your configuration changes and assure
that you've added listeners to this class. This completes the demo for unit testing the item processor.